README.md, before:

# Pygres
Simple python package for managing postgres database

#### Installation
```shell
$ pip install pygres
```

#### Configuration
Set the configuration variables in a config.py file
```python
SQL_HOST = '127.0.0.1'
SQL_DB = 'demodb'
SQL_USER = 'postgres'
SQL_PASSWORD = ''
SQL_PORT = '5432'
```

Import Db object from Pygres and config
Send configurations to Db object
```python
from pygres import Pygres
config = dict(
    SQL_HOST = '127.0.0.1',
    SQL_DB = 'demo',
    SQL_USER = 'postgres',
    SQL_PASSWORD =  '',
    SQL_PORT="5432",
)
db = Pygres(config)
```
Accesing from another python / flask module
Instantiating an entity and saving data
```python
import db

user = db.model('<table>','<table_pk>')
user.name = "John"
user.last_name = "Smith"
user.age = 25
user.save()

```

#### Editing rows
If you want to edit row, just pass pass the primary key of the row you want to edit and save, set the new values and save
```python
user = db.model('<table>','<table_pk>')
user.id_user = 1
user.name = "Jane"
user.age = 27
user.save()
```

#### Rolling back and committing changes
Changes are auto commited by default while saving, but you can choose not commit an statement and roll it back if necessary:
```python
user = db.model('<table>','<table_pk>')
for i in range(0,3):
    user.name = "User %s " % (i,)
    user.age = 10+i
    user.save(commit=False)

if nothing_happens:
    user.commit()
else:
    user.rollback()
```


#### Querying row
To query a row form the instanced table that returns a dictionary with the format `{ 'column' : 'value', ... }` justo do:
```python
user.get(<id_user>)
user_row = user.values
```

#### Quick querying multiple rows
To execute any sql statement...
```python
q = db.query(
    """
    SELECT * from <table> WHERE <col> = %s
    """,
    (param,)
)
```
To fetch rows as a list of dictionaries if any returned from the executed statement...
```python
rows = q.fetch()
```
The returned variable will be in the format
```python
[
    {   
        'id_row' : 1
        'column1' : 'value',
        'column2' : 'value'
    },
    {   
        'id_row' : 2
        'column1' : 'value',
        'column2' : 'value'
    }
]
```

## Testing

#### Postgres reqs for testing
Prerequisites for testing:
* Install PostgreSQL
* Create database 'demo'
* Create table 'test'
  * id_test     [serial]
  * name        [text]
  * value       [text]
  * date        [timestamp]

Commit message:

Added clearing attributes while insert/update

README.md, after:

# Pygres
Simple python package for managing postgres database

#### Installation
```shell
$ pip install pygres
```

#### Configuration
Set the configuration variables in a config.py file
```python
SQL_HOST = '127.0.0.1'
SQL_DB = 'demodb'
SQL_USER = 'postgres'
SQL_PASSWORD = ''
SQL_PORT = '5432'
```

Import Db object from Pygres and config
Send configurations to Db object
```python
from pygres import Pygres
config = dict(
    SQL_HOST = '127.0.0.1',
    SQL_DB = 'demo',
    SQL_USER = 'postgres',
    SQL_PASSWORD =  '',
    SQL_PORT="5432",
)
db = Pygres(config)
```
Accesing from another python / flask module
Instantiating an entity and saving data
```python
import db

user = db.model('<table>','<table_pk>')
user.name = "John"
user.last_name = "Smith"
user.age = 25
user.save()

```

#### Editing rows
If you want to edit row, just pass pass the primary key of the row you want to edit and save, set the new values and save
```python
user = db.model('<table>','<table_pk>')
user.id_user = 1
user.name = "Jane"
user.age = 27
user.save()
```

#### Rolling back and committing changes
Changes are auto commited by default while saving, but you can choose not commit an statement and roll it back if necessary:
```python
user = db.model('<table>','<table_pk>')
for i in range(0,3):
    user.name = "User %s " % (i,)
    user.age = 10+i
    user.save(commit=False)

if nothing_happens:
    user.commit()
else:
    user.rollback()
```

#### Not clearing at save / edit
You can choose not to clear the instance object when inserting or updating, this will make the object to keep the list of attributes
as the last element saved.  
This will only insert a record and modify the same record two times:
```python
user = db.model('<table>','<table_pk>')
for i in range(0,3):
    user.name = "User %s " % (i,)
    user.age = 10+i
    user.save(clear=False)
```


#### Querying row
To query a row form the instanced table that returns a dictionary with the format `{ 'column' : 'value', ... }` justo do:
```python
user.get(<id_user>)
user_row = user.values
```

#### Quick querying multiple rows
To execute any sql statement...
```python
q = db.query(
    """
    SELECT * from <table> WHERE <col> = %s
    """,
    (param,)
)
```
To fetch rows as a list of dictionaries if any returned from the executed statement...
```python
rows = q.fetch()
```
The returned variable will be in the format
```python
[
    {   
        'id_row' : 1
        'column1' : 'value',
        'column2' : 'value'
    },
    {   
        'id_row' : 2
        'column1' : 'value',
        'column2' : 'value'
    }
]
```

## Testing

#### Postgres reqs for testing
Prerequisites for testing:
* Install PostgreSQL
* Create database 'demo'
* Create table 'test'
  * id_test     [serial]
  * name        [text]
  * value       [text]
  * date        [timestamp]
